Namespace registration for Canonical Text Services (CTS) URNs

Namespace Identifier: cts

Version: 1

Date: 2018-11-27

Registrant:

   The CITE Architecture Project

   Contact persons:
     Christopher Blackwell (christopher.blackwell&furman.edu)
     Neel Smith (nsmith&holycross.edu)

Purpose:

   CTS URNs provide permanent, canonical, scholarly references to
   texts or passages of text associated with the unique cultural
   phenomena that humanists study. CTS URNs allow network services
   such as Canonical Text Services (CTS) and the CITE Service suite
   to deliver textual content identified by a CTS URN without regard to
   underlying document formats or storage mechanisms.

   In CTS, each text is defined in terms of two
   hierarchies: the first hierarchy, which associates a work with
   a certain kind of group, is similar to the conceptual model of
   the Functional Requirements for Bibliographic Records (FRBR);
   the second hierarchy, which refers to a passage within a work,
   provides a method for citing a particular location or "citation
   unit". Whereas the conceptual model of FRBR aims to represent
   bibliographic entries as they are cataloged by librarians, CTS
   URNs aim to model works as they are cited by scholars.

Syntax:

   The general structure of a CTS URN is as follows:

   urn:cts:SUBNAMESPACE:WORK:PASSAGE:SUBREFERENCE

   Where:

   o A required CTS subnamespace is a prefix that can be resolved to a unique
     URI in a metadata request such as the GetCapabilities reply of a recognized
     CTS service.

   o A required work identifier is a set of dot-separated components
     representing at least one of a textgroup, work, and edition
     or a translation and examplar. Values for the work identifier
     must be registered with the registry identified by the CTS
     namespace component.

   o An optional passage reference refers either to an individual
     passage or to a range of passages within a work. A passage
     reference to an individual passage is formatted as a set of
     dot-separated components representing one or more levels of
     the citation hierarchy defined in service metadata for that
     work such as the TextInventory of a CTS service. A reference
     to a range is formatted as two passage references separated by a hyphen.

   o An optional subreference identifies a span within a single
     citation unit using indexed substrings. A subreference is set
     off form the passage reference it qualifies by the at sign
     character '@'. A subreference may contain two parts: a literal
     string, and an index value. If an index value is included, it
     is enclosed in square brackets '[' ']' and follows any substring.
     The index value must evaluate to a positive integer.

   A detailed definition of CTS syntax can be found at:

   http://cite-architecture.github.io/ctsurn/

Assignment:

   CTS URNs are assigned programmatically in accordance with the
   policies of an authoritative registry for a given CTS subnamespace.

Security and Privacy:

   CTS URNs are used to identify cultural texts (and units thereof)
   for the purpose of scholarly citation. Because such texts are public
   resources, they do not contain private information or identifiers
   that can be associated with persons. Therefore it is unlikely that
   the use of CTS URNs will result in the leakage of private or
   personal information.

   Tampering with, or mis-assignment of, CTS URNs could result in
   incorrect citations within scholarly works that refer to the
   underlying texts or passages of text. Although such phenomena
   could cause confusion, they are unlikely to result in security
   vulnerabilities.

Interoperability:

   There are no known interoperability issues with CTS URNs as
   deployed.

Resolution:

   CTS URNs are defined for the purpose of citation, not resolution.
   Therefore, resolution is not envisioned and is out of scope for
   this namespace registration.

Documentation:

   More detailed information about CTS URNs and the CTS architecture
   can be found at:

   http://cite-architecture.github.io/


Additional Information: N/A

Revision Information: N/A
