
Namespace registration for CITE2 URNs

Namespace Identifier: cite2

Version: 1

Date: 2019-03-01

Registrant:

   The CITE Architecture Project

   Contact persons:
     Christopher Blackwell (christopher.blackwell&furman.edu)
     Neel Smith (nsmith&holycross.edu)

Purpose:

   CITE2 URNs provide permanent, canonical, scholarly references to
   discrete objects and concepts associated with the unique cultural
   phenomena that humanists study. CITE2 URNs allow network services
   such as the CITE Service suite to deliver content identified by a
   CITE2 URN without regard to underlying document formats or
   storage mechanisms.

   In the CITE2 model, citable objects are identified as unique objects
   in versioned collections.  Analogous to the concept in the CTS URN model
   of a notional text that can be instantiated in multiple concrete versions,
   a CITE2 collection may be referred to either as a notional collection,
   or concretely as a specific version of a notional collection. Individual
   objects may be canonically cited as part of either a notional collection or
   concrete version of a collection.

   Each concrete version of a collection defines a set of properties which
   may or may not be identical across other concrete versions,  but apply to
   all objects within a specified version.

Syntax:

   The general structure of a CITE2 URN is as follows:

   urn:cite2:SUBNAMESPACE:COLLECTION:OBJECT@SUBREFERENCE

   Where:

   o A required CITE2 subnamespace is a prefix that can be resolved to a unique
     URI in a metadata request.  The registry of CITE2 subnamespaces is maintained
     through the institutional repository of the College of the Holy Cross at
     http://crossworks.holycross.edu/cite2-subnamespaces.
     Versions of this registry are numbered following the principle of semantic versioning:
     major numbers are incremented when one or more records are deprecated;
     minor versions are incremented when new records are added;
     patch versions are incremented when associated information is modifed
     without change to the mapping of subnamespace abbreviation to full URI.

   o A required collection identifier is a set of dot-separated components
     representing at least one of a collection, a version, and a property.
     Values for the work identifier must be registered with the registry
     identified by the CITE2 subnamespace component.

   o An optional object identifier limits the semantic scope of the citation to a specific
     object.  When the object hierarchy identifies a notional or specific version of
     a collection, the object reference limits the reference to single object.  When
     the object hierarchy identifies a specific property, the object reference limits
     the reference to the specified property of the specified object.  In ordered collections,
     a reference to a range of objects is formatted as two object references separated
     by a hyphen.

   o An optional subreference may further extend the identifier with a reference to
     additional qualifying information specific to the individual collection, such as
     regions of interest in an image.  The subreference is set off from the object
     it qualifies by the at sign character '@'.

   A detailed definition of CITE2 syntax can be found at:

   http://cite-architecture.org/cite2urn/

Assignment:

   CITE2 URNs are assigned programmatically in accordance with the
   policies of an authoritative registry for a given CITE2 subnamespace.

Security and Privacy:

   CITE2 URNs are used to identify cultural objects and concepts
   for the purpose of scholarly citation. Because such materials are public
   resources, they do not contain private information or identifiers
   that can be associated with persons. Therefore it is unlikely that
   the use of CITE2 URNs will result in the leakage of private or
   personal information.

   Tampering with, or mis-assignment of, CITE2 URNs could result in
   incorrect citations within scholarly works that refer to the
   underlying objects or concepts. Although such phenomena
   could cause confusion, they are unlikely to result in security
   vulnerabilities.

Interoperability:

   There are no known interoperability issues with CITE2 URNs as
   deployed.

Resolution:

   CITE2 URNs are defined for the purpose of citation, not resolution.
   Therefore, resolution is not envisioned and is out of scope for
   this namespace registration.

Documentation:

   More detailed information about CTS URNs and the CTS architecture
   can be found at:

   http://cite-architecture.org/


Additional Information: N/A

Revision Information: N/A
